[Music]
welcome to impact theory as you know
impact theory has had an abundance of
amazing guests with advice on how to
bring yourself to the next level of
success and on this special episode we
have gathered together some of the best
tips and put them in one episode just
for you and the best thing about these
pieces of advice is that they are things
anyone can do immediately they're easy
practical obtainable and when used
regularly can change your life for
anyone who missed them the first time
around here is a brief list of the
extraordinary people you'll hear from on
today's episode leadership expert robin
sharma triple threat actress megan good
best-selling author mark manson media
mogul dame dash cultural phenomenon
rachel hollis widely popular keynote
speaker hal elrod personal finance
expert ramit seti and world renowned
neuroscientist sam harris so get ready
for the secret weapons of success to be
unleashed with our first guest the one
and only robin sharma
one thing that i want to talk about is
that level of energy and enthusiasm and
you talk about that being something
that's common among high achievers how
do we cultivate that
well um
first of all congratulations on all your
success with the show and all the
people that you're influencing
so
one of the lines from right out of the
5am club is
one of the dnas of legendary is
longevity so if you look at the picassos
the jean-michel basquiatch you look at
the great
sports champions you look at the great
history makers
they were much better at energy
management than time management
and so we're in a war against
distraction right now and what we really
have to do is optimize our energy how do
i do it well i mean i get to the morning
routine which which the whole book is
based on but it's really quite powerful
because if you start your day with
sweaty exercise you're actually going to
activate a pharmacy of mastery that
exists in every human brain i know
you'll love the neuroscience you're
going to release bdnf which is brain
derived neurotrophic factor that's going
to actually accelerate your processing
it's actually going to repair brain
cells that have been damaged by stress
you're going to release the
neurotransmitter dopamine which is the
the fire neurotransmitter which we all
need as entrepreneurs and business
builders and and servants of humanity
cortisol
the fear hormone is highest in the
morning so exercising first thing in the
morning is going to reduce that i'm
getting into my 20 20 20 formula but i
mention it because it is a way to
maximize your energy
so talk to us about the 20 20 20. i mean
you sort of um started it there with the
the sweaty exercise but what's the rest
of that formula which is pretty powerful
sure so the new book is all about rising
at 5 a.m and that's because if you look
at the great creatives and the great
saints and the great humanitarians and
the great titans of industry many of
them got up at 5am even right now you've
got tim cook and you've got howard
schultz and it goes on and on
before the sun rises is the time of
least distraction before the sun rises
where you can build intimacy and fluency
with what you want to stand for
in your day before the sun rises the
luxury and tranquility of the early
morning hours
you can do that deep inner work that
will allow you to go out in the world
and and play at your best so what the 20
20 20 formula is is simply this there's
three pockets the first pocket is move
five to five twenty and you get into the
sweaty exercise because like i mentioned
it releases
neurotransmitters it reduces the
cortisol increases your metabolic rate
which gives you more energy so now and
serotonin as well which gives you joy
so now it's 5 20. fundamentally you feel
different you have energy your state is
strong you've got a fire in your belly
and you've accelerated your focus
520 to 540 is the second pocket of the
20 20 20 formula which is reflect we
live in a world where a lot of people
are busy being busy but what's the point
of being busy around climbing the wrong
mount everests and so clarity is one of
the dnas of mastery you know this if you
talk to the titans of industry and you
talk to the people really getting
traction around their ambition
these are people who have a monomaniacal
focus on the few things that matter they
have an obsession bordering on a
possession around the few priorities
they want to build their life around
and so 5 20 to 540 the second pocket you
write in a journal
you meditate
you visualize
you do what i call in the book a
blueprint for a beautiful day
um or you just sit in solitude and you
think and you ponder and you reflect and
then the final pocket is 5 40 to 6
o'clock and this is the victory hour
the final pocket is grow but if you look
at the greatest billionaires i've
coached many billionaires over the past
20 years if you look at the greatest
producers on the planet these people
have one thing in common they are
ridiculously curious
and no matter how much money they make
and no matter how much impact they have
they maintain a white belt mentality
one of the keys to epic performance is a
relentless commitment to daily growth so
that's the 20 20 20 formula that the 5
am method is built around
and
the premise is basically this as you
begin your day so you hand craft the
rest of your day
and if you have consistently great days
you're going to have consistently great
weeks quarters a year and a lifetime so
your days are life and miniature and you
got to get those mornings calibrated if
you really want to win
so a door gets slammed in your face and
sometimes it's gotta suck at a really
real level how do you process through
that and get moving again
for me in the beginning it was like very
devastating and frustrating and then
i just fixed my mind to just say like
what's for me is for me
no one can take it from me and what's
for someone else is from someone else
for someone else and i can't take it
from them and that's how i taught myself
very early to not compete with other
women and just you know i want to see
them win and what belongs to them i
can't take it and vice versa and so
um in terms of the grief of
you know the frustration of certain
things not working out or not being fair
i just fixed my mind to say okay so
sometimes these things aren't fair and i
have a choice i can be mad i can be
upset i can be hurt
um i could be
you know jilton have a chip on my
shoulder or i can choose to say
let me just do what i can do to change
things for the little girl behind me let
me continue to push forward and be very
thankful and happy for the things that i
do get a chance to do because i could be
doing something else you know i could be
working somewhere where i'm not happy
and not doing the things that are really
in my heart and not following my
passions but i get to follow my passion
every day so to be grateful and to be
humble and to have my perspective really
be about i am thankful to do this you
know this is exciting and
to not get upset if it was mine i would
have it you know and so i've just
changed my mind about how i look at it
and how i think about it and of course
there's those roles you going forward
you're like i really wanted that
but i just choose to say you know what
i'm gonna get really excited for who did
get it you know and get excited for the
thing that's mine that's coming so i
love that you say that's a choice yeah
that you choose to be excited for the
other person i think that's really
strong
your attitude and the way that you carry
yourself and all that make you a hero to
a lot of a lot of people first of all
and then a lot of young women especially
you've said that your mom is your hero
oh yeah why
mommy
she's amazing sorry okay um
she just
you know she's done so much
you know she
was married when she was 19 and my older
brother
um
he stopped breathing when he was a baby
and he got brain damage
and she raised him by herself
and then she got
remarried to my sister and i's father
and they were together for 10 years and
then my dad was lapd for 26 years he was
you know constantly working
so she raised milamaya by herself
so it was me and lamaya my older brother
cobert and then
she adopted my younger sister
and she raised all of us by herself and
there were times where you know we had
this three-bedroom house and we had one
extra room built on the back
and i look up and 18 people were living
with us because my mother would
literally take in everybody and
literally care for everybody
and she really gave me that heart
um but she is just an incredible person
she's a lover she's a giver she's given
every last thing that she can to my
sister and i to my sisters and i my
brother
and um
she's just my hero i just love her and
appreciate her and
no i wouldn't be here without her and
when i was a kid i asked her
me and my sister asked her
do you think you could quit your job and
maybe manage us so we could do this full
time
and she did wow
[Music]
the thing that i found most interesting
is the talk about values and like how
much values begin to inform your
identity and basically
your values are essentially who you are
yes take us into that
what does it mean and then how much
malleability is there in values sure so
my focus in my work has always been
value focused i feel like
in the self-help and self-development
world
there's so much focus on success
you know
getting ahead in your career starting a
business making more money
having better relationships but nobody's
actually standing back and defining what
success is like is our definition of
success
valuable or not
and i think especially in today's
you know crazy internet world where
we're exposed to everything um deciding
what we're choosing to define as success
is is a more important question than
ever before
so that's kind of what got me started on
the whole value question in general and
then when i started investigating it and
doing a lot of research and writing
about it i started to discover that like
basically
you know if you think of like how how
you define a person in general um
as humans we tend to define people by
their choices by their actions um
but then what motivates their actions
well often it's how they feel and what
what motivates how they feel about
certain things and it's their perception
of what's valuable and what's not and so
that's kind of how i drilled down
to
to this idea that essentially what we
are is just an aggregation of what we
choose the value in this world if i
value money more than anything else that
will come to define me through my
actions my behaviors what i invest my
time and attention into if i value
family
that will define who i am because
everything else will flow from that
yeah the thing that i find interesting
about values is people
often act as if they are empirical
truths like money is valuable or family
is valuable and they don't realize that
it was a choice often handed to them by
the way they grew up their parents with
their parents instilled in them and so
stepping back and recognizing that all
of this is a choice that you can
consciously decide what you're going to
value
and i'd love to hear your thoughts on
how the process works of deciding to
value something so if somebody finds
themselves in a place where they feel
totally [__] up they don't like who
they are and they buy into this notion
that okay a lot of this is being driven
by values
how do they actually change that yeah
it's funny because i'm not a huge fan of
a lot of like kind of the typical
self-help tropes but the answer to this
question i think is kind of classic
visualization
but it's not the visualization that we
usually hear about so
what i talk about in the book is that
you
like let's say let's say i'm just really
superficial and i value money more than
anything like i've got like a fleet of
yachts and it's it's all i care about
you know um
and then something happens in my life
and i realize that
that's pretty superficial i should like
grow up a bit and you know value
something else and
it's not as simple as just deciding like
we've all had that experience in our
lives where
we wish we cared about something that we
don't or vice versa we wish we didn't
care about something that we do and you
can't just stop
um and so the the process that i
described in the book is that
essentially
before you can commit to a new value you
kind of have to like
try them on like like it's like going to
a store and trying on a bunch of pairs
of clothes
and the way you try on a new value is
you need to sit down and visualize and
you can even write it out if you want
but it's like let's say all i care about
is my fleet of boats and uh and i want
to try on a new value
like charity or something
i have to sit down and start asking
myself what would it mean for my life
what would it mean for me as a person if
i didn't value
those boats anymore
and that's a very hard question it
really
it messes us up because we realized that
a lot of our relationships would
probably fall apart a lot of our
business commitments would probably fall
apart um
a lot of our understanding of ourselves
would be shaken up or or questioned
and it's a very difficult thing to ask
um
and so
you know most of the times when you see
visualization taught in the self-help
industry it's like they take a guy who
wants a fleet of boats and they say
visualize a fleet of boats now go get it
and it's like no no what you need to do
is take a guy who wants a fleet of boats
and say visualize not wanting a fleet of
boats what would that say about you who
would you be
if that thing you always desired was not
your desire anymore
[Music]
one of the things you talk about a lot
that i think is insanely powerful is
perspective
and those to me go hand in hand so
talking about perspective you've said
that i know every perspective from the
smart perspective to the dumb
perspective one why is that so important
and two how do you do that
okay so what i'm able to do is if i want
something i go into the future in my
brain which is powerful
and i visualize exactly what i want
so i'm there i'm in my future and then i
think about every single thing i need to
do to make that happen
and every single thing that could stop
that from happening and what i need to
avoid then i go right back
you understand what i'm saying like i
was just in the future thinking about
watching myself on my television network
so
because i do that that means i have to
think
what would be the worst case scenario
and then i have to think what would be
the best case scenario and then i
eliminate every single thing that i
think could happen which i call arc
detecting
and then i put everything and every
single attitude and person around me in
my vision that's going to make me get to
what i want and also i try to get the
people around me to think about the same
exact vision so even inspire people and
all that energy is focused on one thing
that they can visualize in their head
then it becomes a tangible reality and i
know that to be a fact because it's
happened
it's a fact for me so i continue to do
that i know that anything i can imagine
i can make happen so i am really careful
about how small my thoughts are because
i don't feel like wasting time in a 24
hour day
making this much
and i could spend the same amount of
time with the same amount of energy if i
architect it right i have this much and
with this much i can help so many more
people that i love
you understand what i'm saying so that's
how i look at all perspectives
it's the only way to prepare yourself
it's like when you you know when you box
you look at tapes so you see where that
person punches that's one perspective
you look at it from another you might
want to fight from a left from right you
might want to fight from southpaw you
know
it's just studying and the more you're
prepared
the easier your time is what i tell my
staffs and everyone that works with me
is
the more you care
the more you prepare
period and thinking is a part of that
you'd be surprised how many people are
scared to think
most of my arguments don't come from me
pushing somebody physically it's from me
pushing them to think about god damn you
don't want to think like that doesn't
eat like it's harder to run a [__]
mile than to think so why is it less
scarier to work out than to just think
and it doesn't take any physical effort
it's about a perspective
why are people so scared of the unknown
just because you don't know an answer
like google was so foreign to me up to a
couple years ago as surprising as that
may seem but raquel who's wifey for life
he remembers the moment that i was like
holy [__] i could find out everything
all this time
you know
all i would have had to do was look and
i would have seen how easy it was but
because it was unknown in the moment i
thought it was complicated how many
times do you get a remote control it
does three million things but just
because you don't know how you can't
figure it out you're like [__] all those
other things even though if you look at
it it will make life a bit easier
[Music]
so how did you go from
being paralyzed by your mother-in-law's
expectations or what you know your
eighth grade friend was going to think
yeah to really owning that well i think
first of all it was over
you know a decade i know everyone sort
of and nowadays we see social media
we're always kind of looking for the
magic bullet and i if you want business
advice or life i mean i can tell you
what worked for me but none of it's fast
and i i don't think that the things that
are lasting are ever quickly
accomplished so
for me a couple of things i had really
pivotal moment and like at some point
i'll stop quoting him but i'm a huge fan
of tony robbins
going to upw changed my life
that's not an ad and i don't actually
know him it just really was a huge deal
for me
but i was at that conference years and
years ago and
he
they do this thing where it's a question
he asks everybody like oh which parent
did you crave love from most and if
you've seen his documentary he he does
the same thing in the documentary not
who did you love most who did you crave
love from most and for me it was my dad
and he said now who did you have to be
for him in order to get his love
and for me i i knew the answer this was
nothing new i'd done a ton of therapy so
i'm like i it's why i'm an achiever like
i had to perform
in my family nobody paid attention to
you unless you were doing something good
so if you got an a on the test if you
scored a goal in the soccer game then we
all clap for you and we love you and the
second that that achievement is done
we're back over here doing our thing and
what that teaches a child is that in
order to get love you better keep
achieving now i don't regret that
because gosh it's manifested into
something really powerful as an adult
but um so we asked that question who'd
you have to be and then he says and who
else did you have to be and i had never
consciously had this thought and it fell
out of my mouth small
so my dad was
little girl little girl you don't know
what you're talking about little girl
this little girl and he wanted you to be
bigger than life when other people were
watching but he also believed that
children should be seen and not heard
you little girl you better shut your
mouth so how do you carry that how do
you carry be as big and achieving as you
can possibly be
and then shut up because nobody wants to
hear what you have to say and i found
myself as a grown woman sitting there
realizing that this had become my career
so i had
in the dark like behind the scenes in a
way that it wouldn't bother anybody i'm
building and dreaming and an
entrepreneur and super proud of what i'm
doing but if you had asked me what do
you do i'd be like oh i have this little
blog
and it was at the time i'm like by
myself it's over six figures i was
really proud of what i would but i never
said that family parties oh oh rachel
she was a little blogger she's a little
diy but i i wouldn't claim
what i was doing because i just thought
i've got to be big and i've also got to
be small so for me it was a
understanding why that's why i think
therapy is so freaking powerful it's not
that time that you sit in the chair with
someone and cry about all the things
it's that moment where you're like oh my
gosh
that's why if you know why you can learn
how to navigate around something but i
think if you don't know the core of the
problem you can't move past it so
understanding why i felt that way
and also making the decision as a people
pleaser
that i would no longer seek love from
others in negative ways
and the only way i know how to do that
is
i'm going to be so filled with love
myself
for my in-laws for my parents for for
everybody else that it doesn't matter if
you love me back i'm going to love you
so hard it doesn't matter if you love me
back because if i've got enough love for
both of us then i don't need to try and
shape myself into someone new in order
for you to approve of me
talk to me about fear like it i i have a
from an emotional standpoint i'm i will
put myself in the almost emotionally
invulnerable
position like i've spent an inordinate
amount of time on that yeah
but i would have to process through some
real fear even if it was just okay now
what happens to my wife what happens to
my family so how did you
deal with that
um
here's an important piece of this is
when it comes to accepting all things
that you can't change death is one of
those things
so i made peace with death a long time
ago and and i think that death is a big
fear for all of us and to me it i've
gotten to the point where i realized it
doesn't even make sense for that to be a
fear for anything that's inevitable or
that you can't change
right that there's no point in in in
resisting it and wishing it weren't
going to happen
and and the way that i look at death is
it's the other side of birth and we
don't fear birth
right but birth and death are both just
as inevitable and they're two sides of
the same coin that is life right but oh
man it's that's the one thing i've heard
you say where i was like
and and i'll say why
birth gives death takes or such is my
perception right now and maybe you're
about to give me a breakthrough and i'm
so [__] open to that you can't
imagine but like
the the thing that
that i really want to understand like
how you've dealt with it internally is
that
that um what and maybe i'm packaging it
wrong when i say it out loud but that
sense of i want something so badly and
thusly i am terrified to lose it
and the the
wanting is
so powerful and so important and so
beautiful that i know i don't want to
give that up but yet it creates the fear
it is the i mean like the old buddhist
notion of
life is suffering because you want
things because you want things and you
may not get them because you want things
you may lose them like the love for a
child i imagine i'm not a parent i
imagine is transformatively profound
but it [__] sucks you in dude and it
gets you to the point where now like
right now i'm not afraid to die except
for my wife legitimately for myself and
whatever like i i won't say that i'm not
bothered but it's like not a grand fear
of mine even though i talk a lot about
living forever that's me moving towards
something not away from i don't i'm not
moving away from death i'm moving
towards the things i would be able to do
if i could live forever
but dude
the thought of having kids or the
thought of leaving my wife behind that
[__] makes me emotional yeah and so
i really want to know
like how did you process through that
because
in there somewhere
is is a breakthrough for me if nobody
else yeah so that was the hardest thing
like i said because i've made peace with
death i was imagining my wife and my
kids losing me
especially my kids like the the most
important thing in my world in my life
is that i can influence my children in a
positive way to set them up for a great
life right
um and so that that i might not have
that opportunity was the the hardest
thing to deal with
i think that part of it is
i didn't spend a lot of time on thinking
about that right so that's the thing is
people that have a lot of fear you're
thinking about the things that you're
afraid of right you don't have the fear
of and if you're not thinking right if
you're not thinking about the thing
you're afraid of but as soon as you
think about it the fear
comes up
so for me um i use affirmations a lot
too that's one of the miracle morning
practices is affirmations and
affirmations i think have a kind of a
bad rap you know like stuart smalley you
know i'm good enough i'm smart enough
and people like me and then they're
taught by like a lot of self-help
pioneers is like lie to yourself if you
want to be a millionaire just say i am a
millionaire over and over and over until
you believe it right but
we're if we know the truth you're like
i'm a millionaire you know your brain's
like dude no you're not right you're
like shut up i'm doing my affirmations
right like so the point is
the way that i view affirmations is they
simply direct your focus on wherever you
want your focus directed so you can
literally like a computer program you
can go okay what are the beliefs that i
want to focus on so they expand inside
of me even the thoughts that i want to
focus on what are my values what are the
behaviors that i need to embody right so
so you read these affirmations every day
and you're programming yourself to live
in alignment with that program that
you've designed
[Music]
so let's talk about the job stuff
because i talk about jobs it's a little
unusual uh i think that uh it's become
very popular online to say like screw
jobs and like be an entrepreneur and i
think entrepreneurship is great but i
also think most people have a job and
you can create amazing value by working
with a team and i have employees and
they do an incredible job so and i've
had jobs so um i think that uh when it
comes to a job there is a totally
counter-intuitive way to approach it
uh i i routinely show people how to
negotiate 10 25 000 raises all the time
and you're like that's crazy there's no
way et cetera et cetera excuse excuse
here's the different approach the first
way that most people think is like if
i'm going to negotiate for a raise which
like oh they might just like fire me
that's problem number one that's that's
the wrong way to look at it
if you go in and ask for a raise you're
not devaluing yourself you're actually
increasing your value because what type
of person would go in and ask for a
raise a top performer so the second
thing is they believe that they have to
kick down the door of their boss and say
like give me money well if you do that
of course they're going to kick you out
that's a very impolite way to do it a
third way is much more effective so i'll
just give you like the quick lay of the
land
if you want to get a raise for anybody
watching
this is how you do it you send an email
to your boss you say you know what i
would love to meet with you and i would
love to discuss what it takes to be an
absolute top performer in this role to
make your life easier
could we set up some time in the next
week or two of course 100 of bosses are
going to say yes i'd love to see you so
you go in there and you say hey boss
really appreciate you taking the time
i've enjoyed my role i just want to tell
you that i don't want to just do a fine
job i want to be a top performer here
and i would love to know exactly what it
takes for me to be a top performer okay
so
let me just pause right here if i'm the
employee and you're the boss how do you
feel right now with me walking in and
asking this so [__] good like this is
the greatest advice of all time okay
because we're creating value right and
i'm not coming in saying like give me
money i'm like please advise me you're
the boss i want to learn from you so the
boss is going to say they're going to
give you some generic answer because
they weren't prepared for this oh you
need to show up and blah blah blah blah
blah whatever you say i really
appreciate that i'd love to get really
specific in fact i did a little bit of
research before i came in here are three
things i think would make look at that
look at the face because bosses don't
hear this
most of their employees just show up do
what's expected and then they're like
how come i'm not getting a ten thousand
dollar raise like ramit said cause you
don't deserve ten thousand dollars
unless you go above and beyond so you
know hey boss uh i know that i'm
currently working on this sales project
and we're slated to have a three percent
improvement
i really think we can do six would that
be part of top performing role here yes
what about this da da da so you you have
a little discussion and you say okay am
i reading this right these three things
would help me really outperform at this
role yes
okay i'll tell you what i'd like to get
to work on this i'm gonna commit to
sending you an update every week or
every two weeks and at the end of six
months i'd like to come back and show
you what i accomplished if i do it
i'd like to discuss a salary adjustment
at that time but let's not even worry
about that right now let's have me focus
on this what do you say
[__] yeah
[Music]
one of the things i struggled with with
meditation was it felt decidedly
feminine
and in a way that as somebody who i felt
i felt that um certainly growing up that
i was far more on the feminine end of
being a guy than anything else and so
for me my journey certainly to being an
entrepreneur was one of toughening up
and so anything that that made me sort
of feel that old school sort of gentle
way
i would push back on and it's why i
didn't meditate for a long time
but i see you you're doing brazilian jiu
jitsu you're somebody who obviously
cares about martial arts and being able
to fight and defend yourself i've heard
you talk very eloquently about
violence and clearly in your
professional life you've
just even just what you've done in the
writing let alone the lecturing you've
already achieved such massive success
refused to believe that there wasn't a
just massive amount of energy behind
that
so how do you think about meditation in
that context is this like going to war
with your mind and you're i'm going to
come out the other side having face
demons
and having won some sort of victory that
allows me to perform at a higher level
or am i totally missing all of this and
it needs to be
a letting go
a more peaceful relaxed sort of
transient experience yeah well at first
it's a very common association i i
totally understand it and it's presented
in many ways
where yeah you under that framing you
can just feel the testosterone leaving
your body you know
so uh yeah that's not my orientation it
is a lot like
jiu jitsu for the mind and it's and it's
a lot like it
i mean what's so beautiful about jujitsu
in particular is that
you can have this massive effect in the
domain of violence
while being relaxed it is what aikido
off you know advertises itself to be but
it's a much more you know at least in my
estimation a much more effective version
of that same
underlying ethic where you can like you
can
control someone
uh
and
use as little violence as as necessary
and basically just use
a superior knowledge of physics and
leverage and position against them so
it's it's a very
it can be incredibly relaxed and yet
um
given what the circumstance is it can be
a
very high testosterone
experience you know it's not it's a kind
of quintessentially
masculine thing to be doing
but
you can internalize the same sort of
structure
and
that's largely what meditation is
because basically
the default state is one of being
attacked
and ambushed all the time
by your thoughts and by your reactivity
and by
uh you are being taken in
by assumptions and and illusions and not
knowing just you just you you're in a
fog
not you personally but you know one is
and
um
you know even when you learn to meditate
you're in this fog most of the time i
mean and you're cut so the practice
is one of continually breaking the spell
hey everybody i hope you enjoyed that
episode as much as we enjoyed putting it
together i think some of the advice that
was laid out is some of the most
extraordinary advice that you will hear
anywhere and i promise if you put it to
consistent use in your life it will
change you for the better forever all
right until next time my friends be
legendary take care bumble called hero
thousand faces
and basically he described that you know
everybody crashes and then you're faced
with
that crash
and you either have an epiphany or you
don't
now you either
you